dear me, let's start this experiment again.

i sometimes feel as if i have things to say, but i mostly say them to
myselves or talk about them once to others. but the fact is, most ideas
get lost somewhere in between having them and trying to capture them.

maybe that's good, because many ideas aren't quite good, but it feels
bad to me. i want to know why those ideas didn't work out, i want to
know what i thought about a month, a year, a decade ago. but i can't
quite remember it myself. and i know my mind is trying to paint a
prettier picture of it.

so this is going to be a place for ideas, good ones and bad ones and
ones that just are. out there, without judgement, free for anyone to go
and have some fun with.

but i am a technology person. i do stuff with computers, i think about
how we can do better all the time. and i learn a lot. so that's going to
be in here as well.

and then, there's failure, or rather, stumbling. when learning something
new, when discovering something i thought is wrong, when learning more
of myself.

i miss that, from a lot of places. we often only hear about the
successes, the good endings. yes, they are motivating and beautiful and
all these things, but they are only part of it. what comes before, what
after? where are the parts where we just despair, not knowing where to
go?

obviously those things are kept elsewhere. maybe they're hidden in the
notebooks, the nights where we just cry. hidden from others.

but that isn't me. i am those failures, i am constantly stumbling, then
moving a bit and then stumbling again. that's who i am. i want to be
able to talk about them, i want to hear from others with similar
problems or with more experience than i have and encouragement.

sometimes that's just like magic. encouragement. but how does it work if
we just pretend all is well? it isn't and that's just how it is at
times.

so i'll try to talk more about these things. i don't know how that will
work, but i'll try. again.
