---
layout: post
title: Focus
---

I struggle with focusing. Although most projects of me that I consider
successful are the result of focused work, I spend a lot of my time not
focusing, but trying to work on many things simultaneously, which is
something I am not very good at. And then there are times where I am not
doing anything in particular, but actually I am trying to learn
something.

I don't say that I don't like to play, to read blogs and to discover new
things, but I *do* dislike to realize at the end of the day that I've
done *nothing else*. I want to accomplish quite a few things, but I need
to focus to do that.

With that out of the way, I'd like to talk about how I am going to
improve the situation. I do that both as a writing excercise and as a
reminder to actually do something. (*Note: I consider writing a form of
productive work and writing this article sparked that* I did something
*feeling inside me, so I consider writing this a good thing.* :)

## Distractions

Usually, I have about 5-15 tabs open, alongside of that at least 3
terminal sessions running (a university project, email and various
projects of my own, usually), an instant manager, often a pdf viewer and
probably and IDE if I have to use it for university.

That probably sounds not like much, but it still distracts me. Because
most of the time I only need one or two of those things and I actively
want the rest to not get in my way, which it currently does.

I haven't analyzed my statistics about my usage patterns, but I suspect
that I spend most of my time in very small timespans. most of them are
smaller than 15 minutes, probably as low as 5. I seldom spend more than
30 minutes on one thing continuously, but I also think that the
"successful" projects are the result of focused work over periods
of at least an hour.

Also, when I'm switching, it's likely that I change to something
unrelated and thus loose focus. I isn't even deliberate all the time,
but having a browser session with many distractions one click away isn't
o, ...

## What's missing?

There are at least three thing missing from my current workflow:
Conscious *decisions* about what to do next, *separation* of the
different projects I am working on and *reflection* after I finish
working on something.

I need to make descisions because I need to know what I am working on.
To seperate the different projects will help me focus on one thing,
because when switching it is likely a conscious decision. And I need to
reflect on what I did because I need to judge whether I was successful
and what to better the next time around.

## Going forward

I need to implement solutions for these problems. Probably the most
important part is the reflection, which is precisely what I am doing
right now. Naturally this is also the input for the descision about the
next thing to work on.

Yet, I need a tool to help seperate projects. I'll try some of the
existing ones and will report (reflect :) later.

For later reference, here's my list of things to incorporate into my
workflow:

### Decision

 * a clear goal/accomplishment
 * a restricted time frame after which I need to *reflect*

### Seperation

 * block distractions (browser sessions, im away, one terminal, ...)
 * enforce the separation, tracking my usage patterns and make switches
    a conscious decision

### Reflection

 * needs a result (written, sketch, blog post, ...)
 * be a *critical*, but focusing on improvement

PS: What do *you* do?
