---
title: self.promises - Week II
layout: post
---

Without further ado, here's what I already did:

* (re)wrote the server part of the shopping list
* rewrote the algorithm from work, found in [my lp repo][lp-java]
* went to a local meetup, [leipzig.js][]
    - overall it was at least interesting
    - for my taste it was too much "let's use JS for that", but if you
      want to learn something you probably have to do that for a while
    
      I still thing a certain balance would be better, i.e. being more
      aware of what you're using right now is not so good at
    - next time I do such a thing I should be better preparated
      (experiment a bit in advance, bring concrete questions, insist on
      getting answers for the ones I have)

There also was a cool [d3][] hacknight with some other people at
[spreadshirt][], with some [interesting results][d3-hacknight]. I had a
bit of a head start because I read [a paper][d3-paper] about it in
advance and I dabbled a bit with it before, but it was still too much
stumbling around.

I think I'll write a small tutorial on using d3 and the concepts behind
it (yes, that's another *promise*), but the two things that helped me
better understand d3 so far was [the paper][d3-paper] and a little
[tutorial][d3-tutorial] that explained the concept of the
`enter/update/exit` selections.

Now that I think about it, I'll also write a [`TODO`][d3-hacknight-todo]
with further plans for experiments with d3.

Regarding the previous [promises][self.promises], here's what's
remaining and bugging me most:

* I didn't write the letter, yet
* I didn't think enough about learning and also didn't write about it so
  far.
* I did think a bit more before writing code, but I still struggle with
  noticing when I am stuck and then consciously working to get unstuck
  or at least learn something about myself when being stuck

The entertainment/doing separation is something I am not so sure about:
I don't think I *can* work on stuff I am not really passionate about
all the time, but still I feel bad when I am using entertainment as a
substitute for having to think. I think one of the things that helps me
is going "public" about stuff I'd like to do, but only to a certain
extend. That is, if I don't get asked about what is going on with the
things I said I was working on and I am not really motivated, that
project will probably not get done.

All in all, I think that one of the central themes of [Apprenticeship
Patterns][] is really something important: be *aware* of what you do,
how you're doing it and *reflect* on how it's going.

Well, that's it for now I'm going to do a few of the things on my list
for the weekend.

Ok, ok, one last experiment:

    var post = document.querySelector("#rambling");
    var text = post.innerText;
    var words = text.split(/\W/).filter(function(w) {
        return w.match(/^\w+$/);
    });
    var selfish_words = words.filter(function(w) {
        return ["I","me","my","myself"].some(function(s) {
            return s == w;
        });
    });
    var text_stats = document.createElement("p");
    selfish_words.toString = function() {
        return this.reduce(function(s,w) {
            return s == "" ? s + w : s + ", " + w;
        }, "");
    };
    text_stats.innerHTML = "This post contains "
        + words.length + " words, "
        + selfish_words.length
        + " of them being 'i', 'me' or 'myself'. "
        + "Actually, here they are: " + selfish_words + "."
    post.appendChild(text_stats);

<script type="text/javascript">
var code_snippets = document.querySelectorAll("#rambling code");
var stats_code = code_snippets[code_snippets.length - 1];
eval(stats_code.innerText);
</script>

*Now that I think about it, the fact that this little stats snippet above
that hopefully appeared in your browser is actually displayed before
these paragraphs, quite neatly demonstrates that script tags can and do
cause pages to stop rendering at a load/parse time and only continue after
they finish executing. I read about it, but here it is, live and right
before my eyes. So beware, *here be dragons!

*In fact, the stats aren't even correct because of this. Oh my,
intersting indeed, you should go read [a good presentation][web-fast]
about it.*

Take care, <br /><!-- sorry -->
  lu.

[lp-java]: https://github.com/heyLu/lp/confidence/master/java
[leipzig.js]: http://leipzigjs.github.io
[d3]: http://d3js.org
[spreadshirt]: http://spreadshirt.net
[d3-hacknight]: https://github.com/cburgmer/d3-hacknight
[d3-paper]: http://vis.stanford.edu/papers/d3
[d3-tutorial]: http://mbostock.github.io/d3/tutorial/circle.html
[d3-hacknight-todo]: https://github.com/cburgmer/d3-hacknight/master/TODO.md
[self.promises]: /2013-04-06-self.promises.md
[Apprenticeship Patterns]: http://apprenticeship-patterns.labs.oreilly.com/
[web-fast]: http://www.igvita.com/slides/2013/breaking-1s-mobile-barrier.pdf
