---
title: a layered lisp
layout: post
---

lisp in the small is always beautiful. it's almost like poetry and the
language seems made for the problem.

i've seen glimpses of that again and again. ÂµKanren, core.logic,
core.typed, carefully crafted blog posts about lisp, paul grahams posts
and even books about compilers for languages like haskell.

at it's core, these things are very simple. but lambda by lambda,
abstraction by abstraction and layer by layer something truly beautiful
is built.

the parts fit together well. no, not well, as if they're made for each
other.

you see it when you explore scheme. when you begin to understand what
clojure might be about. when understand those few lines that say so
much.

but where are the systems where everything is like this? do they exist,
are they possible?

a layered lisp where we start with lambda, gain a let, possibly macros
and then go on defining relational logic, build up comprehensive
libraries to make up something resembling clojure, but without those
dark secrets inside.

why are there three or more compilers for clojure? why not one with many
possible backends? why not nanopasses, tiny functions that when composed
make up this bigger thing, this complex idea that only dawns on you
after you've almost surrendered and then with joy discovered that there
is so much more?

where is the system that is both math and a real programming language at
once, but still built from those tiny pieces, bit by bit?

do they exist?

most likely. scattered little beauties, all over our minds and dreams
and research papers. some even make it into this practical world, where
we forget where they came from.

but i believe they exist. i've seen glimpses, here and there. small
pieces that my dreams put together.

i can't quite make out if i'll ever see them come together, but i really
really hope so. not just because they are so beautiful and simple and
so different, but also because i think that if they meet they will
change the way we think about what we do. they will change what we are
able to do.

because that's what we're after, i think. to extend our senses, to be
able to do more than we could normally do.

now? maybe try reading sicp again, or htdp, or the nanopass paper, or
continue implementing a scheme or just dreaming.

piece by piece, assembling them almost randomly, but they still fit
together somehow, because at some level they build on the same beautiful
layer, so many steps down.

a layered lisp.

i want to see more of it.
